# DevOps: The Big Picture
## 1. Problems That DevOps Solves
### 1.1 Introduction
In this module we will talk about what pain DevOps solves and what DevOps is all about. So here's Carl. He's the CIO of Mirstation, a mid-size enterprise, and his goal is to understand what DevOps is; understand the common objections, figure out the strategy for implementing this in his organization. Whether you're a developer, architect, CIO, operations person, or anyone in a technology function, there's probably something here for you. And the reason Carl cares about this right now is that this company's been an industry leader for years, but they're starting to lag on technology innovation that's impacting their ability to succeed as a business. So they were thinking about how are we actually going to get better at technology, and DevOps is one option.
### 1.2 Let's Learn About the Mirstation
 
### 1.3 Pain Points
### 1.4 About Waste
### 1.5 Introducing DevOps
So let me introduce DevOps to you a little bit. Really it starts off with what do you want to accomplish? And if you think about lean, and we'll talk about that in a moment, it comes down to two things. I think you want to increase the value given to customers. We want our customers to enjoy the things that we're giving them so they stay customers so that they're happy. Eventually, obviously, they give us more money, but the goal is to first just increase the value to customers, but the one you can't forget is respect for your people. If I do this by burning out my staff and having this high turnover rate, or asking them to do just inhuman work schedules or dangerous things, that's actually still not achieving the goal here. The goal is to increase value while making sure that your people are being successful, taken care of, and able to work to their maximum. I still want the most out of the people on our team, but I want to do in a way that makes them feel valued and accomplished effectively. And so those are the two things we're after. If we talk about lean and lean manufacturing, a very successful model for really going away from some of the classic manufacturer models to actually building things a little more effectively, if we look at what lean's about, it focuses on customer value. The goal of lean isn't to cut costs when manufacturing things, it's to free up resources so I can focus on adding value. The first question you ask, even with things like the Toyota Production System, is what value are we adding from the customer's perspective? A real attention on time and value to that customer. A huge piece of this is eliminating waste. We just talked about a bunch of wastes, and so in lean you work systematically to eliminate all non-value-added processes in order to achieve your goal with the least possible effort and waste. One Piece Flow, or cycle time, is really important here. The ideal batch size in lean is one. It means I go from building it to processing it to shipping, and one team's able to process that. If I have One Piece Flow, I've almost eliminated all the different types of waste we just talked about. That's really the ultimate goal in lean is to apply that sort of One Piece Flow to all business operations. You also want shared, continuous learning, incremental improvement, that's a core part of this. It's not only am I doing continuous learning, but it's shared. I don't have a single expert who knows things. I have the organization getting smarter, I have multiple people growing, learning the right way to do these sorts of things. I'm also eliminating some of the overburden of people. Just eliminating waste is only one part of making lean successful. Eliminating the overburden to people, even the equipment, and eliminating some of that unevenness, that lumpiness in production, is just as important as just getting rid of waste. So I'm going to make sure my people are also being maximized in lean. Finally, you have this idea of the theory of constraints. This is about finding bottlenecks, removing those bottlenecks, and recognizing that those things are constraints. They're things that are holding up the process. If I don't improve the bottleneck, there's really no point improving anything else. Imagine an IT flow where I decide to make my development even better, and they're amazing. I give them better tools, I rearrange their workstations, but I've done nothing to fix, let's say, a QA team where things actually bottle up. So in that case, the dev team's working even faster, but my bottleneck is the same. That's my constraint. So my goal is to go tackle that constraint, figure out how to make that better, elevate that, do whatever's needed to improve the capacity because if I don't fix that, it really makes no sense to fix anything elsewhere. So the theory of constraints is a powerful model for actually going to fix the areas that make the most difference. Now when we're defining DevOps, one definition that's been around for a while that I still like, uses the C.A .L .M .S. acronym. And so as we think about that, we'll break down each component, each letter of that, but DevOps has a lot of definitions. All are mostly focused on value; cost savings isn't the point, just like lean. DevOps is a manifestation of many of these lean ideas, but to a technology world. So if we look at this, the first C is culture. People and processes are at the forefront. If you don't have the culture, all of your automation efforts are fruitless. You can't buy DevOps. There's no product that should really be called DevOps because just automating something doesn't matter if I don't have the right culture in place, and we'll talk more and more about that throughout this course. Automation is a big piece of it though. I need to repeatably automate activities that are redundant, that are things that are human prone to error, or things that simply add waiting waste because they're things done by people that should just be done by automation. Once you have some of the cultural pieces in place, that's when you can also use some tools to stitch together core steps of your deployment pipeline. And of course all those lean ideas we've talked about are really important here. We want to make sure that we're applying those lean concepts, that we're actually decreasing the amount of time to make changes, that we're making work visible, reducing batch sizes, building quality and preventing defects, all kinds of things that are core to lean, that you apply those to IT to actually make better software that adds value to the customer. And metrics are important. This isn't just about a one-way directional flow, it's about feedback loops. It's about making sure that I'm measuring progress, that I'm measuring customer usage, I'm measuring things are going wrong so I can improve that. Any successful DevOps implementation measures all sorts of things and has discrete feedback loops between teams, from the technology back to the people who build it, to make sure you're always able to improve. And then finally, sharing, continuous learning. So again, I'm not just collecting all this data, but I'm learning it by sharing the knowledge. This is really the core part of the feedback loop, creating a culture where people are sharing ideas, problems are the focus. We're critical, we're going to swarm on that, we're going to fix that, we're going to do things together. When I follow the C, the A, the L, the M, and the S, I start to build the actual culture, the process, the technology needed to be successful with DevOps. Now does DevOps matter? Are all the things I just called out worth it? That seems like a lot of work if you're in an organization where things at least appear to work, this is a lot of change that you might be introducing. But the real difference is the elite performers, the ones who are doing these sort of things are winning in industry. If you look at the 2018 Accelerate State of DevOps report by Dr. Forsgren and team, you get some amazing numbers, and they've been running this survey for years, so they're actually seeing year over year changes. But the high performers, these elite performers, have an amazingly faster time to recover from incidents. They don't have these long outages that we pointed out earlier in this module that Globomantics faces. Instead, they can recover very quickly from incidents. The elite performers are doing 46 times more frequent code deployments. That means they are getting value into the hands of their customers much faster than everyone else. So the best companies in the industry right now across sectors, this is not Silicon Valley IT companies, these are companies in retail, in government, in financial services, and healthcare. All of these sorts of organizations are doing DevOps successfully, and they're doing that and they're getting code, they're getting value into the hands of their users fasters, meaning they're learning faster than you. They're learning faster, which means they're making their customers happier, which is a risk to any business. It's also interesting, they did a nice job tying this back to business goals. So more than one and a half times more likely to meet or exceed their business goals when they're elite at technology, and they're using DevOps ideas. So they're actually a more successful company. As you can imagine, that's not hard to realize when we look at this module and we look at the sort of waste that infects, not just IT teams, but sometimes the company as a whole, as they're not focused on customers, as they're not focused on shipping value. And so the companies that are doing that are actually exceeding their business goals at a better rate. And then finally, it's almost two times more likely that these elite performers are going to recommend their team to others. This is a recruiting tool. This is a retention mechanism. This is the elite performers are building and retaining the most talented people. The most talented engineers in Silicon Valley companies or startups came from companies like yours. So these aren't people manufactured somewhere else. Your team has probably some very elite performers on there, they just need to be unleashed. The best companies at technology are now making it possible for their people to succeed in that organization, and then they're bringing in other talented people. This is a cascading effect that's very exciting.

### 1.6 Summary


## 2. Making a DevOps Transition
### 2.1 Overeview
### 2.2 Change Culture: Start with Why
### 2.3 Change Culture: Empowerment
### 2.4 Change Culture: Accountability
### 2.5 Change Culture: Teamwork
### 2.6 Change Culture: Learning
### 2.7 Change Culture: Reinforcing Values
### 2.8 Change Organization: Understand Customers and Bottlenecks
### 2.9 Change Organization: Remove Inconsistencies via Automation
### 2.10 Change Organization: Build in Quality and Break down Communication Barriers
### 2.11 Change Organization: Rethink Team Approach
### 2.12 Change Organization: Alter Team Structure
### 2.13 Change Organization: Eliminate Waste
### 2.14 Addressing DevOps Objections
### 2.15 Addressing Additional DevOps Objections
### 2.16 Summary


## 3. Introduction DevOps Automation
### 3.1 Introduction
### 3.2 About DevOps and Tools
### 3.3 DevOps Technology Categories
### 3.4 DevOps Technologies: Planning
### 3.5 DevOps Technologies: Issue Tracking
### 3.6 DevOps Technologies: Source Control
### 3.7 DevOps Technologies: Build and Test
### 3.8 DevOps Technologies: Continuous Integration and Deployment
### 3.9 DevOps Technologies: Configuration Management
### 3.10 DevOps Technologies: Cloud Platforms
### 3.11 DevOps Technologies: Monitoring and Logging
### 3.12 DevOps Technologies: Knowledge Sharing and Communication
### 3.13 Summary